<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="C" xml:lang="C">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch006.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="introduction" class="level1">
<h1>Introduction</h1>
<p>This book is for the real estate agent who has successfully navigated a few deals and has some experience with a real estate Customer Relationship Manager (CRM). If you are a new agent or someone who has never used—or even heard of—a CRM, I recommend reading my first book, Real Estate CRM Secrets, which is the perfect introduction to the benefits of using a real estate CRM. This book, Real Estate CRM Mastery, is for experienced agents looking to go beyond the basics.</p>
<p>A <strong>real estate CRM</strong> is a software organizer that real estate agents use to track and follow up with their leads, monitor their listings and closings, and stay in touch with their friends, family, and past clients. With a little work, you can make your CRM the command center of your real estate business. But you already knew that!</p>
<p>This book will teach you how to use the systems and automations built into your CRM to boost productivity and maintain consistent follow-up and deal tracking. I will also show you how to grow your business with checklists, follow-up, and delegation. You will learn how to create a repeatable, scalable system through automation. I share key strategies to improve your efficiency, so you can be more effective in what you already do. When you’re ready, your CRM can help you work with an assistant or partner.</p>
<p>By the time you finish this book, you’ll know exactly how to increase your revenue while maintaining a healthy work-life balance. If you think you need to work harder to grow your income, I’m here to tell you there’s a better way. I might even show you how to take a vacation or two without clients breathing down your neck.</p>
<p>I’ve worked in the real estate tech industry for over twenty years. My team developed RealtyJuggler, a CRM designed specifically for real estate agents, and we have helped more than 150,000 agents like you grow and succeed in their businesses. This book shares the combined wisdom my team and I have gathered from speaking directly with real estate agents like you and helping them get just a little more from their real estate CRM.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
