<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<!DOCTYPE html>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" lang="C" xml:lang="C">
<head>
  <meta charset="utf-8" />
  <meta name="generator" content="pandoc" />
  <title>ch014.xhtml</title>
  <style>
  </style>
  <link rel="stylesheet" type="text/css" href="../styles/stylesheet1.css" />
</head>
<body epub:type="bodymatter">
<section id="conclusion" class="level1">
<h1>Conclusion</h1>
<p>As a real estate agent, your database is your most valuable business asset. Your CRM helps you keep an up-to-date, unified address book that syncs with your smartphone. To maintain accuracy, use it regularly.</p>
<p>By maintaining a balanced mix of new prospects and past clients, you can maximize your results. For past clients, stay in touch through strategic client appreciation outreach, Christmas greetings, and periodic “just called to say hi” phone calls. New prospects can be automatically added via email feed, valet import, and open-house web forms. </p>
<p>You can automate your follow-up using time-release drip emails, printed letters, postcards, phone calls, and text messages. This can all be coordinated utilizing the touch cycle.</p>
<p>CRMs do much more than store your calendar and contacts. Mastering advanced features is what sets successful agents apart. Transactions can be tracked and automated through task plans. As you grow, you can bring on an assistant or partner and stay accountable with a coach and the goals section of your real estate CRM.</p>
<p>One thing people sometimes overlook is that your CRM is also a relationship manager. It lets you monitor the personal lives of thousands of people at once. Your aim isn’t just to fill your database with contacts; it’s to use that database to connect with people and get to know them. While a healthy database won’t close deals on its own, it will support you at every stage of the process.</p>
<p>If you have any further questions about CRMs or real estate technology, please contact me via my website at:</p>
<p><a href="https://realestatecrmmastery.com">https://realestatecrmmastery.com</a></p>
<p>I’ve also included a list of additional resources at the end of this book. Remember, building a successful real estate business is an ongoing journey. Use what you’ve learned here, apply it, and keep moving forward.</p>
</section>
</body>
</html>
